# Job descriptions

### Web Developer

* Front-end

Front-end web development, also known as client-side development is the 
practice of producing HTML, CSS and JavaScript for a website or Web 
Application so that a user can see and interact with them directly. The 
challenge associated with front end development is that the tools and 
techniques used to create the front end of a website change constantly and so 
the developer needs to constantly be aware of how the field is developing.

The objective of designing a site is to ensure that when the users open up the 
site they see the information in a format that is easy to read and relevant. 
This is further complicated by the fact that users now use a large variety of 
devices with varying screen sizes and resolutions thus forcing the designer to 
take into consideration these aspects when designing the site. They need to 
ensure that their site comes up correctly in different browsers (cross-browser), 
different operating systems (cross-platform) and different devices 
(cross-device), which requires careful planning on the side of the developer.

Tags: HTML, CSS, javaScript, GUI, webpage, design, frameworks

* Back-end

Back-end Development refers to the server-side development. It focuses on 
databases, scripting, website architecture. It contains behind-the-scene 
activities that occur when performing any action on a website. It can be an 
account login or making a purchase from an online store. Code written by 
back-end developers helps browsers to communicate with database information.

Tags: databases, API, backstage logic, programming, server, server-side, 
algorithms, technical design

* Full-stack

Able to perfom the jobs of both back-end and front-end

Tags: "Backend and frontend combined"

### Network Engineer

A network engineer is a technology professional who is highly skilled in 
maintaining the connectivity of networks in terms of data, voice, calls, 
videos and wireless network services. These network engineers are also 
referred to as network architects.Our Network engineering description includes 
being accountable for formulating, implementing and executing the entirety of 
computer networks within an organization.

Additionally, our network engineering description addresses their role making 
sure all the systems are functioning properly as intended. The fundamental 
goal of a network engineer is to provide maximum network infrastructure, 
security and performance to the end users. Depending on an organization’s 
requirement or network complexity, the organization will sometimes have global 
network engineers across countries who take care of technological advancements 
throughout the firm. This international web of engineers proves cost-effective 
for the organization while also meeting needs for users and the business.

Tags: networking, infrastructure, backstage logic, server

### DevOps

DevOps is a series of practices and processes that are intended to speed up 
and automate aspects of the processes of developing, testing and releasing 
software, allowing for the continuous delivery of software and software 
updates. Whereas previously software would be developed by developers and then 
passed onto testers to test and go back and forth between them, DevOps 
practices aim to simplify this by integrating these previously separate teams. 
DevOps engineers are responsible for facilitating this.

The role of a devOps engineer combines aspects of a technical role and an IT 
operations role. While engineers are likely to be involved with coding, and a 
knowledge of coding languages and principles is required to find problems and 
build solutions, this is not the primary role of a devOps engineer. More 
senior engineers are likely to be more involved in the project management and 
planning side of development.

Tags: infrastracture, automation, scripting, netowrking

### Emedded Software Engineer

Embedded Software Engineering is the process of controlling various devices 
and machines that are different from traditional computers, using software 
engineering. Integrating software engineering with non-computer devices leads 
to the formation of embedded systems. Embedded systems are typically popular 
in medical science, consumer electronics, manufacturing science, aviation, 
automotive technology. A typical embedded system requires a wide range of 
programming tools, microprocessors and operating systems. Embedded software 
engineering, performed by embedded software engineers, needs to be tailored to 
the needs of the hardware that it has to control and run on.

Tags: hardware, real-time, low-level, c++

### Software Developer

The role of a software developer engages in identifying, designing, installing 
and testing a software system they have built for a company from the ground up.
It can range from creating internal programmes that can help businesses be 
more efficient to producing systems that can be sold on the open market. Once 
software developers have delivered the final software system, they will also 
help in maintaining and updating the programme to ensure that all security 
problems are fixed, and it operates with new databases. In a role of a 
software developer they create the applications that allow people to do 
specific tasks on a computer or mobile and others develop the underlying 
systems that control networks.

Tags: technical design, algorithms, programming, testing, maintenance

### Test Engineer

A test engineer works to test products prior to their official launch to 
identify potential problems and ensure quality. A test engineer collaborates 
with various departments from network engineers, support and operations to 
ensure a plan is in motion to provide a seamless product launch. A test 
engineer seeks to balance various aspects of the project, from safety to 
design . Additionally, they will research advanced technology regarding ideal 
specifications in the field and seek to find cost-effective solutions.

A test engineer is generally located within a large company and works 
alongside other professionals to meet client's needs. A bachelor's degree is 
required for the position, with many holding advanced degrees in Computer 
Science, Software Engineering or related engineering fields. Individuals with 
a holistic understanding of both the operational and scope aspects of a 
project tend to excel in this position.

Tags: technical design, scripting, testing, automation, analysis, security, 
thinking outside the box

### Data Analyst

Organizations in all industries increasingly rely on data to make critical 
business decisions—which new products to develop, new markets to enter, new 
investments to make, and new (or existing) customers to target. They also use 
data to identify inefficiencies and other business problems that need to be 
addressed.  

In these organizations, the job of the data analyst is to assign a numerical 
value to these important business functions so performance can be assessed and 
compared over time. But the job involves more than just looking at numbers: An 
analyst also needs to know how to use data to enable an organization to make 
more informed decisions.  

Tags: analysis, data, human factor, business, statistics

### Data Scientist

A data scientist will typically be more involved with designing data modeling 
processes, creating algorithms and predictive models. Therefore, data 
scientists may spend more time designing tools, automation systems and data 
frameworks.

Compared to a data analyst, a data scientist may be more focused on developing 
new tools and methods to extract the information the organization requires to 
solve complex problems. It’s also beneficial to possess business intuition and 
critical-thinking skills to understand the implications of the data. Some in 
the field might describe a data scientist as someone who not only has 
mathematical and statistical knowledge but also the skills of a hacker to 
approach problems in innovative ways.

Tags: analysis, data, human factor, business, statistics, programming, 
algorithms, prediction

### Cloud Engineer

Cloud engineers--i.e., professionals responsible for assessing a business's 
infrastructure and migrating different functions to a cloud-based system--are 
in high demand, as more companies move critical business processes and 
applications to public, private, and hybrid cloud infrastructures. These 
professionals build, maintain, and link to cloud services, with a mix of 
technical skills, business knowledge, and experience with at least one of the 
major cloud providers: Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud 
Platform.

Tags: networking, design, automation, infrastructure, maintenance, security

### Database Administrator

Individuals within the Database Administration role design, install, maintain 
and upgrade the Institute’s databases (production and non-production 
environments.) They provide technical expertise in the use of database 
technology and are accountable for the overall performance of the enterprise’s 
database environment. Database Administrators work closely with analysts and 
developers to define and resolve information flow and content issues—helping 
to transform business requirements into environment specific databases. 
Database Administrators develop databases across multiple platforms. They 
support the transformation of business requirementsinto database solutionsand 
work closely with software developers to implement robust, scalable 
applications that interface with those databases. Once a database is in place, 
they monitor and analyze performance metrics and then allocate database 
resources to achieve optimum database performance. Individuals implement and 
perform backup and recovery procedures for the enterprise’s databases and help 
develop the tools and techniques that allow clientsto access data in a secure 
environment. Lastly, they support andhelp develop a common set of standards, 
the methods,and procedures used for all database administration development 
work and recommend upgrade pathsfor all technology components.

Tags: technical design, database, SQL, maintenance

### Systems Administrator

System administrators (or sysadmin or systems administrator) are responsible 
for the maintenance, configuration, and reliable operation of computer systems 
and servers. They install hardware and software, and participate in research 
and development to continuously improve and keep up with the IT business needs 
of their organization. System administrators also actively resolve problems 
and issues with computer and server systems to limit work disruptions within 
the company.

Most system administrators start their career by pursuing a degree in computer 
science, IT, or engineering. In addition, many system administrators choose to 
get system or technology certifications in order to improve opportunities for 
advancement. A common progression in the career path of a system administrator 
is to move on to become a systems engineer and then a systems architect.

Tags: scripting, networking, hardware, server

### Cyber Security Specialist

Cyber Security Specialist is responsible for providing security during the 
development stages of software systems, networks and data centers. The 
professionals have to search for vulnerabilities and risks in hardware and 
software. They manage and monitor any attacks and intrusions. The Security 
Specialist has to recognize the potential threat or attempted breach by 
closing off the security vulnerability. They build firewalls into network 
infrastructures.

The professional should suggest security measures for any information. They 
must design various strategies and defensive systems against intruders. The 
Cyber Security Specialist monitors systems for any unusual activities.  They 
conduct counteractive protocols and report incidents. The professionals will 
examine and evaluate security strategies and defenses. It is the 
responsibility of the Cyber Security Specialist to create new defensive 
systems and protocols.

Tags: security, networking, monitoring, infrastructure, 
thinking outside the box

### Quality Assurance

Quality assurance is a way to avoid mistakes and consequently prevent any 
potential problems in your project. It is the part of quality management that 
focuses on maintaining the integrity of the product or service, giving 
confidence that all desired requirements will be met. This method develops 
ways to control the flow of work to make it easier to find errors during the 
software development process. 

QA is one of the pillars of success with IT solutions because it takes on some 
management issues: development methods and techniques, project analysis, 
checklists, etc. It is much easier to achieve a long-term goal with a 
well-planned testing process evaluation strategy, as it makes the development 
process more effective. It’s important to follow the strategy at all stages of 
product development to meet the highest quality criteria and track progress of 
a project as well as the work of every team member. The QA team collects and 
analyzes statistical data from the product development process to shift the 
progress whenever necessary. In our experience, having such statistics helps 
the whole team find weaknesses that affect the product. In principle, 
there is a risk at each stage, e.g. a large number of regression errors, minor 
adjustments that will require additional financial resources and postponing 
the release date beyond the desired range. It’s safe to say that QA work 
affects all product development processes, such as the pre-design phase, 
proper development with testing, and, finally, product release. In an ideal 
environment, QA can simplify things and change processes so that problems do 
not occur. In practice, it reduces the problems significantly. It’s worth 
having the QA principles in the back of your head and sharing that 
responsibility with the whole team.

Tags: technical design, business, analysis

### Game Developer

Video game developers, also known as games developers or video game programmers, 
write code for games for a variety of formats, such as PCs, consoles, web 
browsers and mobile phones. They take the video game designer’s ideas, 
drawings and rules, and turn them into a playable game with visuals and sound 
through writing code.

The work of a games developer typically involves:

* Looking at the design specifications of video game designers
* Writing code to turn the designer’s concepts into a playable game
* Using application program interfaces (APIs) – a set of pre-built commands 
that allow different softwares to interact
* Programming the game’s terrain
* Programming artificial intelligence for non-player characters within the game

Tags: technical design, algorithm, hardware, low-level, design, graphics

### Mobile App Developer

A mobile app developer is able to create software for phones and tablets, and 
is familiar with the newest technologies in the mobile world. Mobile 
development requires staying in the mobile head space, meaning that it’s even 
more important than with other hardware contexts to optimize performance, 
battery, network, and memory management. A developer must be also aware of how 
to deal with device fragmentation, often working closely with a designer to 
achieve the best user experience (UX) results.

“Mobile app developer” is a very wide term, because it’s not limited to 
developers who write native code for platforms like Android and iOS. It can 
also include hybrid app developers working with frameworks such as Cordova or 
Ionic, and JavaScript and C# developers, who are using React Native and 
Xamarin to write mobile apps. 

Tags: low-level, hardware, design,

### 1C Developer



### WordPress Developer

WordPress Developers design and implement websites for companies using the 
WordPress creation tool. They are responsible for both front-end and back-end 
development, including the implementation of themes and plugins. Their goal is 
to create attractive and user-friendly websites according to client 
specifications.

Tags: HTML, CSS, javaScript, GUI, webpage, design, frameworks

### Python Developer



### IOS Developer



### Java Developer



